Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to look at what happens when you declare a function within
another function.
So earlier we saw that when we declare a variable and if it's sitting outside of the function then this
gets treated as a global variable.
So we have access to this value within our functions and also outside or functions.
So we can call it at any point and we can access at any point within our script.
And we also saw that when we create a function.
So if we have a function and we're going to call this one side fun.
So when we declare a variable within that function we can only make use of it within the function itself.
So let's give this one a value of two thousand.
So we've got our global we've got our local variable but now we're going to take this one step further
and I'm going to declare another function and this one is going to actually sit inside of the function
that I've got on the outside so that it.
Now you see that we can actually declare functions within functions themselves.
So the question is how do we access the values within this function.
So let's have something happen in here.
And what I'll do is I'll increment the value of B.
So this is important thing to note that even though I've declared the value of B outside of the scope
of this function I still have access to it because this function is sitting outside of this function.
So it's sitting within the local space of that.
So that's where we get access to all of the local values that are sitting in the function without having
to actually redeclare them or write a set of values.
And of course if this is a value that we only want to use within the inside fun then we might we might
be better off just to declare it within here as well.
But for the purposes of this lesson I'm going to leave it declared on the outside part and then I'm
going to access it here on the inside part.
And what I want to do is I want to simply just return whatever the value of B is.
So we see that we've got this function.
It's the inside function and where what we're doing is we're taking the value of b and then we're just
simply returning the value of B.
So let's set up another variable.
So I'm going to give this variable c and this one is actually going to simply call.
And so we're declaring it.
And because we've got our return on the inside Fine then we're simply going to access it.
And now lastly let's log.
So a console log that whatever the value of sees.
So remember C is going to be the value of B plus one being returned from the inside function.
So what do you think is going to happen here what do you think I'm going to see within the value of
c.
Do you think I'm going to see an error or do you think that it could be 2001 or do you think there's
going to be some other value there.
So let's refresh that.
And so what's actually happening is we're not actually invoking this function yet because we're not
calling for it.
So this is something that we do need to do and we need to do this side of the functions so let's set
that up.
And now when we refresh it open that up we see that the value of b is 2001 because what's happened within
the code is that we've gone through so Javascript has gone through it hits this function it knows it
has to run through the code that's contained within the function called outside fun.
So it runs through the code.
First it grabs the value of b and then it goes to here and it says that value of c.
And we're looking to invoke a function called Incyte fun.
So that is sitting locally within here and we can simply increment B and then we return the value B.
Which is why C equals 2001.
So what do you think happens if I try to call this function.
And now I'm actually outside of the function.
So do you think this is going to work the same way.
And if you'd said yes.
So it works the same way as the global and local variables.
So in effect you've got functions that are local within the function and then of course you've got functions
that are global.
So the same idea as the variables you need to be at the same level in order to make use of them and
make use of the values and code that's contained within there.
So let's see what happens.
Now if I don't actually return anything.
So what do you think the value of c is going to be.
And if you said 2002 you're correct because this doesn't actually make any difference if we're doing
something with the return value or not.
All we're doing is calling this function so it knows that when this function gets called this code in
here gets rendered out.
So works the same way whether it's a function within a function or a function outside of a function
and we can also set up the functions the same way as we saw earlier where we can assign a value a variable
and then build the function within that variable so setting up the variable d and what this does is
this has got an anonymous function.
So we saw this earlier and this is going to work the same way where we don't take the value of B.
We're going to incremented.
And we can then also return back the value of B.
So this is basically doing the same thing as this function.
Both are going to be the same.
And in order to invoke it we can simply call to that function.
So let's do the
and we can also do variable b equals D.
So let's see what happens.
Now so refresh and refresh and what we see that the value of c is still 2002 because we're not reusing
C again but if we want to take a look at the value of B at this point let me see what happens here so
what do you think the value of b is going to be.
Remember we've gone through.
We initially set B and the nice thing about having functions within other functions is that you can
have these default starting points for variables and this could actually be really useful if you don't
want these values to constantly changing if they're a variable that's sitting outside and you want to
constantly have a set variable starting point.
Then you can do it this way.
So we've got the value of b at 2000.
We're running the inside fun over here so we're incrementing up by 1.
We're running inside fun again here so incrementing it by again over here.
We're running the function dece or incrementing again and we're running the function again.
So we're incrementing it.
So do you think the value of b is going to be 2004.
And if you said yes you are correct.
So you're following along with how how many times we've run through and we've executed code that increments
B by 1.
And this is another important thing to note that even though I've got two separate functions I can still
use this variable.
So even though this is locally within this function I still have use for it in a number of different
functions and I can utilize it as much as I want and it stays at whatever the local value is.
And then once this outside fund gets run it's destroyed and it's gone.
So if I was to run outside on multiple times what do you think is going to happen.
What do you think the value of b is going to be.
So let's check that out.
And if you said 2004 you're correct because this is the whole idea of why we want to have a function
within a function because this gives us the ability to have all of them consistent and starting with
the same value of 2000.
So what I want you to do is try it for yourself and try creating a function within a function and then
doing something with the local variable values that are contained within the function.
So do practice try it out for yourself.
Also do maybe have multiple variables and multiple values invoke the function multiple times and then
also make use of those local variables within additional functions being declared within that one function
and see what you can make happen using functions within functions.
And it is important to get used to writing functions and we have a whole lot more on functions coming
up later on in the course in the more advanced part of the course.